---
layout: post
title: "Git tips"
---

* [Basics](#basics)
* [.gitignore](#gitignore)
* [Log](#log)
* [Reverting](#reverting)
* [Deleting a repository](#deleting-a-repository)
* [References](#references)

## Basics

1. Git - more like a mini filesystem - thinks about its data more like a stream of snapshots, unlike other delta-based version control systems (Subversion.)

2. Unlike CVCS, nearly every operation in Git is local.

3. Git has integrity. Everything is checksummed. It uses SHA-1 to store everything in it's DB.

4. Git generally only adds data.

5. Git has three stages: *modified*, *staged*, and *committed*. And it has three main sections:
   * *The working tree*: a single checkout of one version of the project. Files are pulled out of the compressed DB in the Git directory and placed on the disk for modifications.
   * *The staging area*: - aka index - a file that stores info about what will go into the next commit.
   * *The Git directory*: - .git - stores the metadata and object DB.

## .gitignore

1. When we want to ignore certain files or folders, create a .gitignore file and add the file/folder name inside:

   ```text
    file.txt # a single file
    folder/ # a folder named `folder`
    *.txt # all txt files
   ```

2. If a file is already tracked, use `git rm --cached foo.txt` to remove it first from the git repo.

## Log

1. When we want to get a simpler version of the log, use `git log --pretty=oneline`.

## Reverting

1. Use `git checkout .` to revert to the last commit before adding the new changes.

2. Use `git checkout` plus the first 6 characters of the reference ID to check out the old commits. This enters the detached HEAD state. And it's best ***not to make changes*** when checking out old commits. Use `git checkout master` to go back the master branch.

3. Use `git reset --hard` plus the first 6 character of the reference ID to reset the project to the old commit.

## Deleting a repository

1. We can either delete the .git directory in a file browser or use `rm -rf .git`.

## References

* [Python Crash Course, 2nd Edition: A Hands-On, Project-Based Introduction to Programming](https://www.amazon.com/Python-Crash-Course-2nd-Edition/dp/1593279280/ref=sr_1_1?keywords=python+crash+course&qid=1558808134&s=gateway&sr=8-1)

* [Pro Git, 2nd Edition](https://git-scm.com/book/en/v2)